content/assignments/3.md, before:

---
title: Assignment 3
width: wide
---

# Observability and Serverless

**Due Tuesday, February 27 at 11:59pm**

Congratulations on finishing Assignment 2! You've now successfully deployed Yoctogram, now ready to serve the image-sharing needs of an arbitrary amount of users.

In Assignment 3, you'll extend your existing Yoctogram deployment to add a Lambda function for image compression, as well as integrate with Datadog for observability.

## Setting up

You'll be building on your existing CDK code from Assignment 2. Keep the EC2 instance you used for Assignment 2, as well as the existing deployment you set up. 

{{< callout type="info" >}}
If you tore down your deployment following your Assignment 2 submission, please set it up again following the instructions in the Assignment 2 handout.
{{< /callout >}}

Pull starter code updates from the `main` branch of the starter code repository:

```
git pull --rebase upstream main
```

## Observability using Datadog

Here, you will add some instrumentation to the Yoctogram backend API on ECS using Datadog.

### Signing up for Datadog

The [GitHub Student Developer Pack](https://education.github.com/pack) gives you free access to Datadog for up to to 2 years (ending when your student status expires). 

{{< callout type="info" >}}
If you haven't already, sign up for the GitHub student pack, ensuring that your Stanford email is registered on your GitHub account. Note that it may take a day or so to approve your student benefits. Contact us if it takes any longer than that. 
{{< /callout >}}

Then, [create a Datadog account](https://studentpack.datadoghq.com/) through your GitHub student pack.

After logging into your Datadog console at https://us5.datadoghq.com, search for "API Keys" using the search bar on the top left. Create a new key (you can name it anything you would like). Note down the value of the API key, as you will need it shortly.

### Configuring Datadog with CDK

All code changes for this section will occur in `compute_stack.py`.

First, add `import json` and `import Duration` from `aws_cdk` to `compute_stack.py`.  Your imports should appear as:

```python
import json # new
from aws_cdk import (
    Stack,
    Duration, # new
    aws_cloudfront as cloudfront,
    aws_cloudfront_origins as cloudfront_origins,
    # Further imports here
```

#### Two-Step Deployment: Part 1

Now, add a new secret to the secrets manager to store the Datadog API key. You can do this the same way as we added the `app_secret_key`.

{{< callout type="warning" >}}
When you create a new secret in CDK, the value of that secret will be pre-populated with a placeholder value, which obviously means nothing to Datadog. With this initial deployment, any resource that relies on the Datadog API key (which will later include your ECS Fargate task) will fail and crash, until you edit the API key secret value in Secrets Manager.
{{< /callout >}}

Thus, you will need to deploy the secret first, edit the value to the actual Datadog API key, and then deploy the rest of the Datadog resources in a separate step.

Now, run `cdk deploy yoctogram-compute-stack`.

Log into your AWS Console, and navigate to Secrets Manager. You should now see a new entry for the newly created secret.

![New secret created](/assignments/3/secrets-manager-display.png)

Click on the new secret, scroll down, and click "Retrieve secret value".

![Retrieve secret value](/assignments/3/secret-key-retrieve-value.png)

This will show the placeholder value of the secret, and a new button "Edit" should pop up. Click this and paste the Datadog API key from earlier in (ensure there are no newlines), and then click save.

![Edit secret value](/assignments/3/secret-key-edit.png)

### Two-Step Deployment: Part 2

Back in `compute_stack.py`, add the following labels to the existing container:

```python
docker_labels={
    "com.datadoghq.ad.instances": '[{"host": "%%host%%", "port": 80}]',
    "com.datadoghq.ad.check_names": '["yoctogram-ecs"]',
    "com.datadoghq.ad.init_configs": "[{}]",
},
```

These labels will allow Datadog to interface with the containers.

You will now add a [sidecar container](https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/aws-fargate-monitoring-with-datadog/) to your existing ECS task for Yoctogram that will forward metrics and traces to Datadog's backend. A sidecar container is a container that runs in the same task as your main backend container, which means it has access to the same internal network.  This container will be used to run the Datadog agent, providing strong introspective capabilities into your environment.  Add this container directly below the first container in the CDK.  Make sure it meets the following requirements:

- Pulls the latest image from the official Datadog ECR registry `public.ecr.aws/datadog/agent:latest`
- Contains the following environment variables (these are used to configure Datadog to work with your environment):
    - `ECS_FARGATE: "true"`,
    - `ECS_FARGATE_METRICS: "true"`,
    - `DD_SITE: "us5.datadoghq.com"`,
    - `DD_APM_ENABLED: "true"`,
    - `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED: "true"`,
    - `DD_APM_NON_LOCAL_TRAFFIC: "true"`,
- Injects the secret `DD_API_KEY` into the container, which should be retrieved from the secret you provisioned earlier
- Configure logging in the same way as the previous container
- Has a health check with the following parameters:
    - Runs the command `agent health`
    - Three retries
    - 5 second timeout
    - 30 second interval
    - 15 second start period
- Has a port mapping from port 8126 on the container to port 8126 on the host
- Has the correct permissions to access the Datadog secret

To check that your configuration is at least free of the most common errors, run the `grade3.sh` script (if this doesn't exist already, we'll later post instructions here and on Ed on how to get it), which will tell you if there are any obvious errors with your code.

Once this passes, run `cdk deploy yoctogram-compute-stack` again, and this will add a container to your deployment that will forward traces and profiling information to Datadog.

### Using Datadog to monitor your environment

Log into your Datadog console at https://us5.datadoghq.com. On the left-hand sidebar, under "APM", click on "Traces". Here, you'll see a list of web requests being made to your app! Most of these will be from the automated health check, but you can also try clicking around on your Yoctogram deployment and seeing what traffic that generates.

![Datadog traces](/assignments/3/datadog-traces.png)

Now, go to https://provisiondns.infracourse.cloud/a3, sign in with your Google account, and click submit.

{{< callout type="info" >}}
if you're working in a group, the group member that deployed Yoctogram should do this.
{{< /callout >}}

This will create an easily identifiable web request to your Yoctogram backend deployment, which has a *flag* in UUID format embedded in its HTTP User Agent header. As a reminder, a UUID looks like this:

```
6b3310f5-48f8-48a1-b610-7d3e8c774abe
```

Using Datadog, please find the flag and save it so you can access it later. You'll submit the flag with the rest of your code -- this helps us make sure you were able to use Datadog.

## Compression using Lambdas

S3 provides a very minimal API. Thus, a common use of Lambdas is to add features to S3.  For this and other reasons, Lambdas are often considered part of infrastructure rather than part of the application logic.  For this assignment, we will implement a Lambda that compresses images before insertion. A real social media app would want to do this in order to save storage space and network bandwidth.

The Lambda has been written for you in `compression/app.py`.  It runs in a Docker image built using the `Dockerfile` in the same directory.  We want the Lambda to trigger every time an image is uploaded to either the public or private images bucket.  The Lambda will compress the image and insert the compressed image into the same bucket (we have included logic to prevent an infinite loop, but normally you would deposit the compressed image into a *different* bucket).

All the code changes for this portion will occur in `data_stack.py`.  First, modify your `aws_cdk` imports to look like the following:

```python
from aws_cdk import (
    Duration,
    Stack,
    aws_cloudfront as cloudfront,
    aws_ec2 as ec2,
    aws_lambda as lambda_,
    aws_lambda_event_sources as lambda_event_sources,
    aws_rds as rds,
    aws_s3 as s3,
)
```

which you can do by adding `Duration`, `aws_lambda as lambda_` and `aws_lambda_event_sources as lambda_event_sources` to the existing imports.

At the end of the file, you want to actually add the Lambda (it doesn't actually matter where, but the bottom is a safe place).  Make sure the Lambda:

- Is run from the provided Docker image, where the `Dockerfile` is located in `"../compression"`
- Runs on ARM64 architecture
- Is triggered whenever an image is inserted into either the public or private image buckets (the Lambda term for such an occurrence is an "event")
- Has a timeout of 30 seconds
- Has a memory size of 1536 MB
- Has the correct permissions to access both the public and private image buckets

To check if everything works, examine the S3 buckets and make sure the images are compressed (read: they look much worse than the ones you originally uploaded, and are significantly smaller).

{{< callout type="warning" >}}
Do *NOT* just view the images from the website -- due to Cloudfront caching, you may be served full quality images even if the image is being compressed properly.  Check the buckets direcly from the console.
{{< /callout >}}

## Submission and Grading

Details to be announced at a later date.

<!-- we're using submission.txt -->

Commit message:

Add warning about POST request for Lambda trigger

content/assignments/3.md, after:

---
title: Assignment 3
width: wide
---

# Observability and Serverless

**Due Tuesday, February 27 at 11:59pm**

Congratulations on finishing Assignment 2! You've now successfully deployed Yoctogram, now ready to serve the image-sharing needs of an arbitrary amount of users.

In Assignment 3, you'll extend your existing Yoctogram deployment to add a Lambda function for image compression, as well as integrate with Datadog for observability.

## Setting up

You'll be building on your existing CDK code from Assignment 2. Keep the EC2 instance you used for Assignment 2, as well as the existing deployment you set up. 

{{< callout type="info" >}}
If you tore down your deployment following your Assignment 2 submission, please set it up again following the instructions in the Assignment 2 handout.
{{< /callout >}}

Pull starter code updates from the `main` branch of the starter code repository:

```
git pull --rebase upstream main
```

## Observability using Datadog

Here, you will add some instrumentation to the Yoctogram backend API on ECS using Datadog.

### Signing up for Datadog

The [GitHub Student Developer Pack](https://education.github.com/pack) gives you free access to Datadog for up to to 2 years (ending when your student status expires). 

{{< callout type="info" >}}
If you haven't already, sign up for the GitHub student pack, ensuring that your Stanford email is registered on your GitHub account. Note that it may take a day or so to approve your student benefits. Contact us if it takes any longer than that. 
{{< /callout >}}

Then, [create a Datadog account](https://studentpack.datadoghq.com/) through your GitHub student pack.

After logging into your Datadog console at https://us5.datadoghq.com, search for "API Keys" using the search bar on the top left. Create a new key (you can name it anything you would like). Note down the value of the API key, as you will need it shortly.

### Configuring Datadog with CDK

All code changes for this section will occur in `compute_stack.py`.

First, add `import json` and `import Duration` from `aws_cdk` to `compute_stack.py`.  Your imports should appear as:

```python
import json # new
from aws_cdk import (
    Stack,
    Duration, # new
    aws_cloudfront as cloudfront,
    aws_cloudfront_origins as cloudfront_origins,
    # Further imports here
```

#### Two-Step Deployment: Part 1

Now, add a new secret to the secrets manager to store the Datadog API key. You can do this the same way as we added the `app_secret_key`.

{{< callout type="warning" >}}
When you create a new secret in CDK, the value of that secret will be pre-populated with a placeholder value, which obviously means nothing to Datadog. With this initial deployment, any resource that relies on the Datadog API key (which will later include your ECS Fargate task) will fail and crash, until you edit the API key secret value in Secrets Manager.
{{< /callout >}}

Thus, you will need to deploy the secret first, edit the value to the actual Datadog API key, and then deploy the rest of the Datadog resources in a separate step.

Now, run `cdk deploy yoctogram-compute-stack`.

Log into your AWS Console, and navigate to Secrets Manager. You should now see a new entry for the newly created secret.

![New secret created](/assignments/3/secrets-manager-display.png)

Click on the new secret, scroll down, and click "Retrieve secret value".

![Retrieve secret value](/assignments/3/secret-key-retrieve-value.png)

This will show the placeholder value of the secret, and a new button "Edit" should pop up. Click this and paste the Datadog API key from earlier in (ensure there are no newlines), and then click save.

![Edit secret value](/assignments/3/secret-key-edit.png)

### Two-Step Deployment: Part 2

Back in `compute_stack.py`, add the following labels to the existing container:

```python
docker_labels={
    "com.datadoghq.ad.instances": '[{"host": "%%host%%", "port": 80}]',
    "com.datadoghq.ad.check_names": '["yoctogram-ecs"]',
    "com.datadoghq.ad.init_configs": "[{}]",
},
```

These labels will allow Datadog to interface with the containers.

You will now add a [sidecar container](https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/aws-fargate-monitoring-with-datadog/) to your existing ECS task for Yoctogram that will forward metrics and traces to Datadog's backend. A sidecar container is a container that runs in the same task as your main backend container, which means it has access to the same internal network.  This container will be used to run the Datadog agent, providing strong introspective capabilities into your environment.  Add this container directly below the first container in the CDK.  Make sure it meets the following requirements:

- Pulls the latest image from the official Datadog ECR registry `public.ecr.aws/datadog/agent:latest`
- Contains the following environment variables (these are used to configure Datadog to work with your environment):
    - `ECS_FARGATE: "true"`,
    - `ECS_FARGATE_METRICS: "true"`,
    - `DD_SITE: "us5.datadoghq.com"`,
    - `DD_APM_ENABLED: "true"`,
    - `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED: "true"`,
    - `DD_APM_NON_LOCAL_TRAFFIC: "true"`,
- Injects the secret `DD_API_KEY` into the container, which should be retrieved from the secret you provisioned earlier
- Configure logging in the same way as the previous container
- Has a health check with the following parameters:
    - Runs the command `agent health`
    - Three retries
    - 5 second timeout
    - 30 second interval
    - 15 second start period
- Has a port mapping from port 8126 on the container to port 8126 on the host
- Has the correct permissions to access the Datadog secret

To check that your configuration is at least free of the most common errors, run the `grade3.sh` script (if this doesn't exist already, we'll later post instructions here and on Ed on how to get it), which will tell you if there are any obvious errors with your code.

Once this passes, run `cdk deploy yoctogram-compute-stack` again, and this will add a container to your deployment that will forward traces and profiling information to Datadog.

### Using Datadog to monitor your environment

Log into your Datadog console at https://us5.datadoghq.com. On the left-hand sidebar, under "APM", click on "Traces". Here, you'll see a list of web requests being made to your app! Most of these will be from the automated health check, but you can also try clicking around on your Yoctogram deployment and seeing what traffic that generates.

![Datadog traces](/assignments/3/datadog-traces.png)

Now, go to https://provisiondns.infracourse.cloud/a3, sign in with your Google account, and click submit.

{{< callout type="info" >}}
if you're working in a group, the group member that deployed Yoctogram should do this.
{{< /callout >}}

This will create an easily identifiable web request to your Yoctogram backend deployment, which has a *flag* in UUID format embedded in its HTTP User Agent header. As a reminder, a UUID looks like this:

```
6b3310f5-48f8-48a1-b610-7d3e8c774abe
```

Using Datadog, please find the flag and save it so you can access it later. You'll submit the flag with the rest of your code -- this helps us make sure you were able to use Datadog.

## Compression using Lambdas

S3 provides a very minimal API. Thus, a common use of Lambdas is to add features to S3.  For this and other reasons, Lambdas are often considered part of infrastructure rather than part of the application logic.  For this assignment, we will implement a Lambda that compresses images before insertion. A real social media app would want to do this in order to save storage space and network bandwidth.

The Lambda has been written for you in `compression/app.py`.  It runs in a Docker image built using the `Dockerfile` in the same directory.  We want the Lambda to trigger every time an image is uploaded to either the public or private images bucket.  The Lambda will compress the image and insert the compressed image into the same bucket (we have included logic to prevent an infinite loop, but normally you would deposit the compressed image into a *different* bucket).

All the code changes for this portion will occur in `data_stack.py`.  First, modify your `aws_cdk` imports to look like the following:

```python
from aws_cdk import (
    Duration,
    Stack,
    aws_cloudfront as cloudfront,
    aws_ec2 as ec2,
    aws_lambda as lambda_,
    aws_lambda_event_sources as lambda_event_sources,
    aws_rds as rds,
    aws_s3 as s3,
)
```

which you can do by adding `Duration`, `aws_lambda as lambda_` and `aws_lambda_event_sources as lambda_event_sources` to the existing imports.

At the end of the file, you want to actually add the Lambda (it doesn't actually matter where, but the bottom is a safe place).  Make sure the Lambda:

- Is run from the provided Docker image, where the `Dockerfile` is located in `"../compression"`
- Runs on ARM64 architecture
- Is triggered whenever an image is inserted into either the public or private image buckets (the Lambda term for such an occurrence is an "event")
    {{< callout type="warning" >}}
Ensure that this trigger is only effective on `POST` requests and not `PUT` requests. This will prevent the Lambda from retriggering on events generated by its own compression and bucket write action.
    {{< /callout >}}
- Has a timeout of 30 seconds
- Has a memory size of 1536 MB
- Has the correct permissions to access both the public and private image buckets

To check if everything works, examine the S3 buckets and make sure the images are compressed (read: they look much worse than the ones you originally uploaded, and are significantly smaller).

{{< callout type="warning" >}}
Do *NOT* just view the images from the website -- due to Cloudfront caching, you may be served full quality images even if the image is being compressed properly.  Check the buckets direcly from the console.
{{< /callout >}}

## Submission and Grading

Details to be announced at a later date.

<!-- we're using submission.txt -->
